WaxFrame Backlog Master v328
2026-09-22

ABOUT THIS DOCUMENT
────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
This is the canonical list of open work for WaxFrame
Professional — bugs that need fixing and features that need
building. Each entry is written to stand on its own so any
person or AI assistant can pick it up cold and understand:

  WHAT     — what the thing is, in plain language
  WHY      — what problem it solves or what value it adds
  STATE    — current status (OPEN / PARTIAL / PARKED / DEFERRED)
  WHERE    — file:line pointers into the codebase
  DONE     — what "done" looks like (acceptance criteria)

Companion document: docs/WaxFrame_Playbook_Test_Master_vN.txt
(test runs + measured convergence data).

Changelog content does NOT belong here. Released work goes
to CHANGELOG.md and is removed from this file the moment it
ships.






v328 — THE SWEEP THAT FOUND NOTHING, WRITTEN DOWN ANYWAY
       (v3.63.551).

A full security sweep of this repository across six areas.
Two produced releases and are logged below as v326 and v327.
The other four produced nothing, and that is the part worth
recording, because a clean area with no record of being
looked at gets swept again from scratch next time — or worse,
is assumed clean without ever having been looked at.

CI workflow permissions — CLEAN. Every action is pinned to a
commit SHA rather than a tag, the release trigger matches a
tag regex, checkouts set persist-credentials: false, the
release attaches a provenance attestation, and the ZIP is
built with git archive from the tag rather than from a
working tree. Nothing to change.

The Cloudflare relay — CLEAN, and its SECURITY.md claim now
verified rather than believed. Zero console. calls, no KV, D1
or R2 binding, no waitUntil, one ratelimits binding and
nothing else. The caller's API key is SHA-256 hashed to make
a rate-limit key and is never logged, stored or echoed. The
document said so; the code now confirms it.

Injection surfaces — 126 innerHTML sinks, 103 static or
fully escaped, 23 read by hand. All 23 interpolate numbers
that have been through parseInt or Number, comparisons
against literal enums, id strings already slugged at the
import chokepoint, values already through esc(), or HTML
fragments this code built itself. Nothing to fix. See the
SETTLED DECISIONS entry for the two that took real work to
clear, so the next reader does not repeat it.

Path handling — NOT APPLICABLE in the product, which is a
browser app with no filesystem. The tools and the release
script do touch paths; those read from the repo and from a
tag, never from user input.

Secrets — the confidentiality gate scans every tracked text
file against 14 structural rules on every release, and the
redaction work in v326 below was the one real finding.

METHOD NOTE, and the reason this entry exists at all: the
audit tool over-reports. Two of its 23 flagged interpolations
at js/app.js:1906 are escaped through esc() in the emitted
string — the classifier attributed backtick interpolations
from elsewhere in the block to that sink. That is the right
direction for a tool to be wrong in, and it is not being
changed; a reviewer reading three benign lines costs less
than a classifier that quietly drops one. It is written here
so the next person does not spend the time deciding whether
they have found a bug in the app or a bug in the auditor.

SECOND METHOD NOTE, about the release ceremony itself. The
stamp sweep replaces the superseded version across every
tracked file, and it will rewrite a version number that is a
STATEMENT ABOUT THE PAST rather than a stamp. This sweep
rewrote two: the previous release's own CHANGELOG heading and
its build line, and a note in the vendored inventory recording
which release upgraded mammoth. Every stamp the gate checked
was correct while those were wrong, which is the same shape as
v325's finding one layer further out — the machine-readable
fields were all verified and the sentences were not.

Now gated, narrowly: the newest CHANGELOG heading must be the
version being released, that version must appear exactly once,
the heading below it must be older, and the build stamp must be
recorded against exactly one entry. Not "every heading
descends" — that first draft failed on real history, where
v3.39.8 and v3.19.0 each legitimately carry two entries. The
inventory note is not gated, because a note legitimately naming
the release being made is indistinguishable from one that was
rewritten into it.

v327 — A PARSER SIX VERSIONS BEHIND A CVE, AND THREE THINGS
       WATCHING THE WRONG NUMBER (v3.63.550).

lib/mammoth.browser.min.js was mammoth 1.6.0, inside the
affected range of CVE-2025-11849 — a .docx carrying an
externally-linked image makes the converter resolve that URI
and fold what it reads into the output. Now 1.12.3.

The upgrade is the smaller half. Three mechanisms exist to
catch precisely this and all three were blind at once: the
gate's CVE floors covered two of six libraries and not this
one; the inventory recorded mammoth as "1.13.1", which is the
version of the underscore.js bundled INSIDE mammoth and a
version mammoth has never published; and package.json
declared that same unresolvable number, so Dependabot — whose
only purpose in this repository is to watch these libraries —
was watching nothing for the one library that parses
untrusted documents.

The inventory already carried a note warning about this exact
trap for docx.min.js. The same mistake was made one entry
below it and went unseen, because the check that would have
caught it did not cover that entry.

The durable lesson: three independent defences, each sound in
isolation, agreed on a wrong answer because two of them read
the same wrong field and the third did not run. Count what a
check COVERS, not that it exists. Every vendored library now
states a minimum safe version, the gate fails below it, and
it fails if package.json disagrees with what is vendored —
compared against the inventory rather than a version read out
of a bundle, because reading the bundle is what produced the
wrong answer.

v326 — SIX OF THE TEN PROVIDERS' KEYS SURVIVED REDACTION
       (v3.63.549).

WF_DEBUG.scrubText is the single definition of what a secret
looks like, and both export surfaces reach it. It matched on
SHAPE: sk- covered three providers and AIza a fourth. The
other six came through a redaction pass intact — three whose
prefixes were simply never listed, and three whose keys are a
bare run of letters and digits with no shape to match at all.

The prefixes are listed now, but the part that matters is
that shape was the wrong question for half the catalog. There
is no rule for "32 alphanumeric characters" that is not also
a rule for a checksum, and this repository is full of those.
The reliable pass is by VALUE: the app knows which keys the
user configured, so anything equal to one is removed whatever
its format. That covers all ten and covers the next provider
added without anyone remembering to extend a pattern.

Two method notes:
  • The tests walk the REAL provider catalog rather than a
    hand-written list, and one fails outright if a catalog
    entry has no test fixture. A provider added later is
    covered the day it is added.
  • The ordering test could not fail on its first draft. It
    asserted the shorter key was absent, and the shorter key
    is absent either way, because once replaced the literal
    is gone. Asserting the exact output does fail on the
    reversed sort.

v325 — A CHECK THAT COULD NOT FAIL (v3.63.548).

Check 20, added last release to guard the four download scripts,
decided by WORDING: a "skipping verification" phrase, a .sha256
mention, something that computes a hash. It was fed the exact
macOS bug again with none of that phrasing —

    if curl -fsSL -o "$STAGING/waxframe.sha256" "$BASE/..."; then
      ...verify...
    fi

— a failed fetch falling through the empty else into the install.
The gate printed "an unverifiable download is refused" and exited 0.

The item worth keeping: a check written to guard a fix, in the
same release as the fix, is written while the bug is not there to
test it against. Feed it the bug before believing it. Check 20 is
structural now and was proved against three mutants.

Second finding, same shape one layer out. SECURITY.md named pdf.js
4.10.38 as the hosted build. v3.63.528 moved it to 6.3.289 and
updated the inventory, the CVE floor and the gate — not the prose.
Nineteen releases of a public security document naming a library
two majors behind what shipped. Everything machine-readable was
checked; the sentence a person reads had nothing behind it.

Now gated: pdf.js versions stated in SECURITY.md must match
docs/vendored-dependencies.json. Narrowed to pdf.js on purpose —
SECURITY.md also cites SheetJS 0.18.5 as the stale npm version it
is explicitly NOT shipping, and a blanket rule fails that correct
sentence.

The pdf.js accepted risk itself is unchanged and still disclosed.
Portable file:// stays pinned at 3.11.174, below CVE-2024-4367,
unupgradable (pdfjs-dist is ESM-only since 4.x; browsers refuse
module imports across file://). Mitigation is isEvalSupported:false
at every getDocument() call site, still gate-enforced — confirmed
by dropping it from one site and watching the gate fail.


v324 — THE INSTALLERS CATCH UP WITH THE UPDATERS (v3.63.547).

Both INSTALL scripts skipped checksum verification when a release
published none, warning and installing anyway. Both UPDATE scripts
refused correctly and always had. The gate could not see the
difference because Check 18 iterates UPDATER_SCRIPTS only — half
the family checked, half never looked at.

That shape is the item worth keeping, not the individual bug. New
Check 20 asserts the property over all four scripts.

Install-WaxFrame.command carried a second form of it: the checksum
fetch WAS the `if` condition, so a dropped connection and a
genuinely absent checksum took the same branch.

The three security checks from the v308 review are wired into CI
at last — as steps in the browser smoke job, NOT as gate stages.
v309 recorded the reason and it still holds: the gate is
browser-free by design, pure Node stdlib, and CI runs it on a
runner with no browser. Each check file's own header says the same.
The flow harness sits in that job for exactly this reason and was
the precedent followed. Measured: 9s for all three.

So the v308 line "only then should either become a gate stage"
is answered, and the answer is no — they become CI steps. Nothing
is left hand-run.

v323 — A PROCESS FAILURE, NAMED (v3.63.546).

David, after the fifth defect he had found by hand: "technically
you're supposed to open up the browser and check these things out
for yourself and you're supposed to use Firefox edge and chrome to
check it out."

He is right, and it is a written rule — the browser-verification
section of the global handover says in terms: do not silently fall
back to DOM-only checks or skip visual verification. Every check
written for photo import was CDP assertions in headless Chrome.
The app was never LOOKED at.

That is precisely why .542, .543 and .545 reached him: a success
styled as a failure, a missing button, and a zoom that could not
pan are all things you SEE. A DOM assertion only catches them if
you already suspected them, which is the same as not catching
them.

WHAT LOOKING FOUND IMMEDIATELY. Opening the panel in the browser
pane and dragging the image showed it could be dragged entirely
out of view, leaving an empty box. Double-click recovered it, but
only if you knew. Fixed here, and no assertion had suggested it —
the existing tests all passed.

STANDING PRACTICE, added because this cost five releases:
  • A change to anything a person SEES or INTERACTS WITH gets
    opened in the browser pane and looked at, before it is called
    done. .claude/launch.json already has waxframe-test on 8421
    for exactly this, separate from the 8420 instance David runs.
  • Chrome AND Edge can both be driven by the existing harnesses:
    WF_CHROME=<msedge path> node tools/<check>.mjs. Edge was run
    this release and matched Chrome at 49 assertions.
  • FIREFOX IS THE GAP, and it is the browser David actually uses.
    Headless Firefox fails to capture on this machine:
    "RenderCompositorSWGL failed mapping default framebuffer".
    Gecko is therefore UNVERIFIED for the image viewer. The
    features it relies on are all long-supported there, and the
    one real Gecko-specific risk was checked by reading: Firefox
    can report wheel deltaMode in LINES rather than pixels, and
    the handler only uses the SIGN of deltaY, so it is unaffected.
    That is reasoning, not verification, and should not be
    recorded as the latter.

OPEN: get a working Firefox verification path. Options not yet
tried: geckodriver/WebDriver BiDi, or a non-headless window when
David is at the machine and can see it.

v322 — PAN, AND A VISION TIMEOUT (v3.63.545). Both reported from
real use on the day photo import shipped.

1. NO PANNING. Images were handed to the PDF iframe, so the
browser's built-in image view took over — it magnifies on a click
and cannot pan. Zooming into a photographed page therefore
stranded most of the page off-screen, which defeats the ONLY job
the Verify panel has: comparing the original against the
transcription. David: "we can zoom in but can't pan, lol so zoom
is worthless for comparing the text to the ocr output."

Images now get a real viewer — wheel to zoom about the pointer,
drag to pan, double-click to fit. PDFs keep the iframe, whose
viewer already scrolls. Position and scale are written as CSS
custom properties so the transform itself stays in style.css,
which is the same arrangement the snowflake seeds use and keeps
the no-inline-CSS rule intact.

2. NO TIMEOUT ON VISION. Observed live at 142 seconds and still
counting: a provider accepted the request and went quiet, and the
import had no way out. Every other provider call has been wrapped
in an AbortController for a while; runVisionTranscription was
three bare fetches, so there was no timeout, no advance to the
next provider, and a page reload was the only escape.

Now 3 minutes per provider, then on to the next one with wording
that names which timed out. Three minutes because a large image
legitimately takes one to two, and each keyed provider is tried in
turn, so a generous figure multiplies before anything is shown.

NOTE ON THE TIMER. It is deliberately not cleared on success. It
fires at most once, calling abort() on a request that has already
settled, which is a no-op. Restructuring three return paths by
string patching to clear it was the alternative, and a fragile
edit there is a worse trade than one stray timer. Written down so
it is not "fixed" later as an oversight.

WHAT THIS RUN OF REAL TESTING HAS COST, and it is worth seeing in
one place. Photo import shipped in v3.63.541. Since then:
  .542  a success reported itself as a parse failure
  .543  dismissing the panel was a dead end
  .544  print hyphenation came through broken; the status line
        still said warning
  .545  zoom without pan; no vision timeout
Every one found by a person using it, none by any test written
beforehand. The tests now cover all of them and were each verified
RED first — but the pattern is that a new INPUT TYPE needs someone
to actually use it, because the defects were in presentation and
interaction, not in extraction.

v321 — TWO DEFECTS FROM THE FIRST REAL PHOTO TEST (v3.63.544).
Both found by David running a photographed paperback page through
v3.63.543 — neither reachable by any mock, because both are about
what a REAL provider returns and what the screen then says.

1. HYPHENATION. The vision prompt said "transcribe exactly as it
appears", and the model obeyed: a justified print column breaks
words at the right margin, so uni-verse, in-teract and pro-duce
came back broken. That text becomes the Working Document, so the
hive then spends rounds on damage the IMPORT caused — a Builder
either "corrects" the fragments into something else or reports
them as typos. The prompt now asks for line-break hyphens to be
rejoined, for the page wrapping not to be reproduced, and for
genuine compound hyphens to be kept. Fixed in the prompt rather
than by regex afterwards: the model can tell uni-verse from
well-known and a regex cannot.

The kitchen drawing tested earlier never showed this. A letterhead
has no line-broken words. Two real files, two different defects,
and the second only appeared because the first was not
representative.

2. THE STATUS LINE. A photo that imported perfectly reported
itself with the warning triangle and warning colour, because the
presentation keyed off "are there warnings" rather than "did this
fail". The two notes it carries — came from vision, check it; was
scaled, retake closer — are advice about a success.

FOURTH INSTANCE of the same root cause, and the reason a shared
predicate now exists:
  v3.63.541  extractFromFile did not accept image extensions
  v3.63.542  Verify-panel routing tested pdf-vision only
  v3.63.543  the Review button tested ext === pdf only
  v3.63.544  the status line keyed off warnings.length
js/app.js now has _isVisionSourced() and VISION_SOURCE_TYPES, and
the routing added in v3.63.542 was moved onto it. The next surface
that needs the question answered has somewhere to ask instead of
inventing a fifth copy.

Both fixes are pinned, and both guards were verified RED against
v3.63.543 before being accepted. The prompt guard lives in
test-debug-redaction (source-level, gate-run) because the prompt
is a string inside a browser-only function.

v320 — DISMISSING THE VERIFY PANEL STOPPED BEING A DEAD END
(v3.63.543). Reported from a real run: after importing a photo,
dismissing the verify panel left no route back to the extracted
text short of deleting the file and importing it again.

Cause: the Review button was revealed for .pdf only (v3.63.393),
on the reasoning that vision re-scan is meaningful for PDFs and
inline editing is enough for DOCX and text. A photo is read
ENTIRELY by vision, so that reasoning argues for showing it MORE
strongly, not less. Everything behind the button already worked —
_lastImportVerify was set, the context was renderable, the panel
would have opened. Only the button was hidden.

THIS IS THE THIRD TIME IN THREE RELEASES that a PDF-only
condition failed to admit images:
  v3.63.541  extractFromFile did not accept image extensions
  v3.63.542  the Verify-panel routing tested pdf-vision only
  v3.63.543  the Review button tested ext === pdf only
Each was a separate line, each written before images existed,
each invisible to a search for the word "image". Adding a format
is not one change; it is every place the old format was named.
Anything touching import should be grepped for pdf-only
conditions before it is called done.

Also merged: three copies of the "which formats can be displayed"
list, none of which included .bmp although import accepted it, so
a .bmp showed its text with no image beside it. Now one list,
IMAGE_EXTENSIONS, which is why they could drift.

Test: check-ocr-handoff asserts the Review button is VISIBLE after
a photo import, that the verify context survives so the button has
something to open, and that the image is renderable. Verified RED
against v3.63.542 first.

Harness note: that test hung on first run rather than failing.
processFile awaits wfConfirm when a document is already loaded,
and an earlier block had loaded one — an unanswered modal waits
forever. Both in-page helpers now stub wfConfirm, so neither
depends on what ran before it.

v319 — A SUCCESSFUL PHOTO IMPORT STOPPED LOOKING LIKE A
FAILURE (v3.63.542). Reported from a real run of v3.63.541: a
paperback page photographed and imported perfectly, and the app
announced "Imported with warnings ... some parts of the file
could not be fully parsed", offering to re-upload or convert.
Nothing had failed.

Cause: v3.61.0 routes sourceType pdf-vision to the Verify panel
rather than the IMPORT_WARNINGS card, precisely because OCR
output needs checking rather than reporting as breakage. The new
image-vision sourceType did not match that test, so it fell
through to the failure card. Three routing sites now accept
both.

THE LESSON, and it is the one worth carrying. The v3.63.541
tests PASSED. 27 assertions, all green, including that the
import returns image-vision and carries the two warnings. Every
one of them checked what extractFromFile RETURNED. Not one
checked what the person is shown. A return value is not a user
interface, and the gap between them shipped.

check-ocr-handoff now stubs both surfaces, runs the real
processFile, and asserts which one opened. Verified to go RED
against v3.63.541 before being accepted — a test written after
the fix that has never been seen failing proves nothing.

v318 — PHOTOS AND SCANS IMPORT DIRECTLY (v3.63.541).

A photo of a page is the most common scanned artifact there is,
and WaxFrame refused it: "Unsupported file type: .jpg". The odd
part was that the machinery to read one was already present and
wired up — runVisionWithFallback takes base64 JPEG images and is
what the PDF path already hands page renders to. The only missing
piece was accepting the file and handing it over.

.jpg .jpeg .png .webp .gif .bmp now import on both the Starting
Document and Reference Material drop zones. Normalised through a
canvas rather than sent as-is, for three reasons worth keeping:
formats other than JPEG would otherwise arrive under a data URL
whose header lies about the contents; a phone photo is 4000+ px
and billed by the pixel, so the long edge is capped at 2200 and
the user is told when that happened; and the browser applies EXIF
orientation on draw, so a sideways photo transcribes upright.

Fails loudly with no vision key rather than returning an empty
document — an image has no text layer to fall back on, unlike a
PDF, so silence would be the wrong answer.

tools/check-ocr-handoff.mjs now covers it: a real 3200x2000 PNG
built by hand, asserting acceptance, the vision hand-off, the
image-vision sourceType, the downscale notice, and the no-key
failure path. 27 assertions.

METHOD NOTE. The first run of that test failed against working
code: the harness hardcoded a .pdf filename for every fixture, so
the PNG went to the PDF parser and the image branch was never
reached. A test that feeds the wrong input reports a bug that
does not exist, which costs exactly as much as missing one.

v317 — LONG-FILE HALF CLOSED WITH A PUBLIC PDF (2026-09-21).
Two things, and the second matters more than the first.

The corpus gained PDF 1.5+ structure: a /Type /XRef cross-
reference stream, and objects packed into a /Type /ObjStm object
stream. Everything before this emitted a classic xref table plus
trailer, which almost nothing produced this century does — so a
different parse path in pdf.js was entirely untested. Both
fixtures pass on both engines and are asserted to yield IDENTICAL
text, since they are the same document packed two ways; asserting
only that each "parses" would pass on a build that silently
dropped the objects inside the compressed stream.

Then a real 490-page public standards PDF, downloaded rather than
supplied — which is the correction worth keeping. The item said
the long-file test needed David's own files. It did not. Length
was already covered synthetically; what a real long PDF adds is
PRODUCER STRUCTURE, and a public document carries that with no §0
exposure whatsoever. Asking for a private file would have been
asking for risk that bought nothing.

It immediately found what the synthetic corpus could not: the two
engines disagree by 0.11 percent on the same real file. See the
entry above. Every claim of "identical" has been narrowed to
"identical on synthetic input".

v316 — VISION CONFIRMED ON A REAL FILE (2026-09-21). The
whole-document vision branch ran against a real image-heavy PDF
and transcribed it correctly. That is the half
tools/check-ocr-handoff.mjs cannot reach: the mock proves the
plumbing, a real provider proves the transcription.

Recorded without the document, its name, or anything in it. The
letterhead in that file carried a third-party company name, a
street address and a phone number — the exact category §0 names
— so only the shape and the outcome are here.

That is now twice in one day that a real document has been loaded
to test this item, which is the only way to close it and is also
the thing to stay awake to: see the note under v315 about what a
checkpoint or Scout bundle taken from such a session contains.

v315 — FIRST REAL-WORLD PDF RECORDED (2026-09-21). One data
point against the PDF item, written down WITHOUT the filename,
the vendor, the document number or any content — the source was
confirmed to be a genuine business document, so §0 applies and
only the shape and the numbers are recorded.

Worth stating once, because it is a live hazard rather than a
hypothetical: a real document loaded into WaxFrame is in
docText / pastedDocument, and v3.63.537 deliberately does NOT
scrub those. Credential scrubbing covers the debug channels only,
because a checkpoint has to restore the user's document byte for
byte. So a checkpoint or a Scout bundle taken from a session
holding a real document CONTAINS that document, and a Scout
bundle is the thing help.html describes as safe for a public bug
report — meaning safe from CREDENTIALS, not from content.

The filename does not travel with it: the upload status line
writes file.name into a DOM element only, and saveSession
captures #liveConsole, not that element. The document text is the
exposure, and for most real documents the text names the source
anyway.

v314 — OCR HAND-OFF COVERED WITHOUT A KEY (2026-09-21). Tools
only; no shipped code changed and no release.

David confirmed he has a vision key configured, which does NOT
make the path testable from a harness — his key lives in his
browser on his machine, it is a credential, and it is never asked
for. What it enables is the one manual check that remains.

Everything else was mocked instead: a vision provider on the same
origin, the way flow-check mocks a chat provider. Free,
deterministic, and it drives the empty-200 and total-failure
branches on demand rather than waiting for a provider to
misbehave.

Both OCR branches are covered, and they are different code —
whole-document vision marks the result pdf-vision, while the
sparse-page path sends ONLY the offending page and APPENDS its
text. The mixed fixture asserts both the OCR text and the
original text are present, because an append that silently became
a replacement would otherwise still read as a pass.

Nothing was found. Recording that as a result rather than saying
nothing: the failure message alone names both providers, the HTTP
status, the model, and two next steps.

One thing caught in review of my own work: a first draft of the
append assertion contained "|| true", which made it incapable of
failing. Removed. That is the third time this session that
pattern has come up — it is worth reading every new assertion
once with the question "what input makes this go red?"

v313 — PDF PASSWORD PROMPT SETTLED (2026-09-21). No code
change; the behaviour shipped in v3.63.540 and David confirmed it
should stay. Recorded in SETTLED DECISIONS because it is exactly
the shape of thing a later reader files as a missing feature:
pdf.js accepts a password and WaxFrame declines to pass one.

v312 — SYNTHETIC PDF CORPUS (v3.63.540). The PDF item is now
PARTIAL rather than OPEN: the half that can be generated is done
and passing on both engines, and the entry says exactly what is
left and what may never be sent.

The corpus paid for itself on its first run by finding a bug this
session had introduced three releases earlier: MAX_EXTRACTED_CHARS
at 2,000,000 refused a legitimate 600-page document. That cap was
added in v3.63.539 to stop a decompression bomb, and the number
was picked without measuring a real large document. Raised to
8,000,000.

Two method notes worth keeping:
  • The corpus's first draft used one short line per page, which
    the OCR heuristic correctly reads as SPARSE — so every
    fixture looked like a scanned page and the tool nearly
    reported a false alarm about the warning firing on clean
    files. Fixtures have to be representative before their
    results mean anything.
  • The large fixture now asserts its OWN density. At under
    2.4 M characters it sits below the cap it exists to test and
    would pass whether or not anyone put the old figure back.

v311 — IMPORT BOUNDS AND A VISIBLE SAVE FAILURE (v3.63.539).
Both remaining bugs shipped together, because they were one
failure with two halves: nothing bounded an import, and the
oversized result then blew the storage quota silently.

OPEN BUGS is empty for the first time since the security review.

Three layers now bound an import, each stopping something the
others cannot: a file-size cap; a per-part cap on the DECLARED
uncompressed size inside .docx/.pptx/.xlsx, read from the zip
central directory before a byte is decompressed; and a cap on
extracted characters, which is the only one that covers .txt and
.pdf and the only one that protects storage and the prompt.
Embedded media is deliberately exempt from the middle layer —
it is legitimately large and is never parsed as text, so capping
it would reject real documents in order to stop a fake one.

Measured: the 279 KB / 200 MB bomb now costs 5 ms and 0 MB of
heap, against 4.3 s and 602 MB before.

saveProject sheds reference-doc TEXT largest-first and retries,
so the hand-typed fields survive, and it toasts. Before, a quota
failure lost the ENTIRE blob — name, version, all six goal
fields, starting document and reference list — with only a
console line.

METHOD NOTE worth keeping. The bounds test originally proved only
that the bomb was refused, which a cap that rejects everything
would also pass. It now imports an ordinary .docx and one
carrying 40 MB of embedded media, and both must succeed. The
media fixture is the load-bearing one: its media part declares
40 MB, over the 32 MB part cap, so it fails the moment the media
exemption is removed.

v310 — FLOW-CHECK FLAKE FIXED (v3.63.538). Old bug 3 shipped and
is deleted; two open bugs remain. The cause was not the harness
being slow, which is why raising the timeout would never have
worked: app.js's DOMContentLoaded handler is async and awaits
loadSession() before choosing a screen, while every function it
defines — goToScreen included — exists the moment app.js parses.
The harness gated on the function existing, navigated, and then
the app's own goToScreen() landed and moved the screen back.

app.js now sets window.__wfBootComplete as the last statement of
that handler, and every browser-driven tool waits on it. That
also removed a fixed 5-second sleep from the three checks added
in v3.63.537, which had the identical latent race and were one
slow IndexedDB read away from reporting the same phantom.

Measured after the fix: 20 consecutive flow-check runs green,
against 1-in-4 failing before.

v309 — EXPORT REDACTION FIXED (v3.63.537). Old bug 1 shipped and
is deleted from this file; remaining bugs renumbered 1..2. The
fix is one shared scrubber (WF_DEBUG.scrubSessionDebug) called
from both export paths, so there is one definition of what a
credential looks like rather than two that can drift.
tools/check-export-redaction.mjs is now GREEN and stays as the
end-to-end proof; the structural half — that both paths still
CALL it — moved into tools/test-debug-redaction.mjs, which the
gate runs. The gate is browser-free by design, so the browser
check stays a hand-run one; between them the gate catches the
call being deleted and the browser check catches it being wrong.

NEW ITEM 3 below: tools/flow-check.mjs has a real false-failure
rate. Measured while verifying this fix — 1 in 4 runs on an
UNMODIFIED tree fails Flow 1 with "timed out waiting for
screen-bees visible". That cost a wrong conclusion here: a single
red run was read as "this change broke boot" before measuring the
baseline. A check that cries wolf teaches people to ignore it.

v308 — SECURITY REVIEW (2026-09-21). THREE new open bugs, all
reproduced against the running app rather than inferred from
reading it, and all three shipped with an executable acceptance
test rather than a description of one:
  tools/check-export-redaction.mjs  -> bug 1
  tools/check-import-bounds.mjs     -> bugs 2 and 3
Both are RED today on purpose. They go green when the bugs are
fixed, and only then should either become a gate stage.

The review also pinned three guards that currently HOLD, in
tools/check-hostile-provider.mjs (green today): the
makeCleanProviderId taken() check, the budgetKeyFor allowlist,
and the absence of prototype pollution from either. Nothing to
do — the file exists so that deleting one of them is loud.

One lesson worth keeping, because it is the reason bug 1 went
unnoticed: tools/test-debug-redaction.mjs passes, and the
tools/README row for it claimed "secrets never reach a Scout
bundle". It proves no such thing. It unit-tests scrubFailureRecord
against fixtures and never assembles a bundle, so it is
structurally blind to a second unscrubbed copy of the same data
elsewhere in the same file. A redaction test that does not read
the finished artifact is testing the scrubber, not the export.

v307 — LOCK BUG STRUCK (v3.63.536). ONE open item: the PDF import test.

David: "That conflicts lock bug is a dead issue, we were never able to
reproduce it. Strike it from the record and I'll open up something else if it
somehow magically returns."

Moved to SETTLED DECISIONS rather than deleted, so the next reader finds the
history instead of rediscovering a June release note and filing it again —
which is exactly how it surfaced in the first place.

The [wf:lock] diagnostic in lockAppliedChange STAYS, Deep-Dive-gated since
v3.63.533. Do not remove it on the grounds that the issue is closed. It costs
nothing when Deep Dive is off and it is the only instrument that separates
"the data never changed" from "the data changed and the re-render did not".
Closing a report is not the same as gaining the ability to diagnose it.

If it recurs it is a NEW entry with the [wf:lock] output attached, not a
revival of this one.

v306 — HSTS DECIDED, NOT DONE (v3.63.535). Two open items; both need David.

New SETTLED DECISIONS section. Until now a finding had two fates: do it, or
delete it. Deleting loses the reasoning, so the next reader finds the same gap
and files it again — and the one after that does it once more. The refs/pull
residue decision had this problem and survived only because it is written into
CLAUDE.md §4 at length.

Item 3 (no HSTS on waxframe.com) moved there as a decision, not a deletion.
David's call, and correct: the attack needs an active MITM at a user's FIRST
EVER visit; the cost is a second CDN in front of one that already exists
(Pages runs on Fastly), an SSL-mode dependency that breaks the site if wrong,
and a header that cannot be withdrawn once sent.

REVISIT TRIGGERS, and nothing else: a real user base beyond a handful of
customers, or hosting moving off GitHub Pages to anything that sets its own
headers. NOT on a schedule — a decision re-litigated on a timer is not a
decision.

The section also records why the clickjacking guard is JS rather than a
frame-ancestors directive: that directive is IGNORED via <meta>, header only,
and Pages sends none. It reads as an omission to anyone auditing the CSP, so
it is now written down instead of waiting to be rediscovered.

FORMAT RULE ADDED: an item deliberately not done moves to SETTLED DECISIONS
with what was decided, why, and the revisit trigger. Deleting it instead is
how a closed question comes back as a bug report.

v305 — CHANGELOG DEFERRAL SWEEP (v3.63.534). Three open items; all need David.

Triggered by the lock bug: if one deferred item lived only in a release note,
others might. Re-read every "DEFERRED / known issue / still open" line in
CHANGELOG.md and checked each against the code.

CLOSED, verified in code rather than trusted:
  • Strict CSP migration — shipped; script-src has no 'unsafe-inline'.
  • CI behaviour tests — tools/flow-check.mjs exists and is CI-wired.
  • SheetJS Dependabot gap — covered by the release-check CVE floor.
  • Builder-malformed retry — retrySingleAIInPartialRound implements the
    cached-reviewer path that was deferred.
  • help.html wipeStatus inline style — landed in v3.63.380 as promised; the
    only remaining match is the comment describing the fix.

DELIBERATE, not an omission: the CSP meta has no frame-ancestors. That
directive is IGNORED when delivered via <meta> — header only — and GitHub
Pages cannot send headers. Hence the JS frame-buster. Do not "fix" this by
adding the directive; it would be decorative.

NEW ITEM 3: no HSTS on waxframe.com. All hostnames 301 to https correctly, but
nothing tells a browser to use https NEXT time, so a first-ever visit makes one
plaintext request. DNS is already on Cloudflare but records are grey-cloud
(A records resolve straight to GitHub Pages IPs), so no edge headers are added.
Fixable in Cloudflare settings alone, no repo change. Entry carries the steps,
the verify command, and the warning that HSTS is sticky — short max-age first.

v304 — LOCK BUG SURFACED FROM A RELEASE NOTE (v3.63.533). Two open items now;
both need David.

Found while sweeping for functional defects, not process gaps. The v3.63.164/165
notes record "Bug #1 — Lock button one-way (DEFERRED on your repro)". It was
never fixed, never entered this file, and its diagnostic console.log has shipped
to every user on every lock click for ~370 releases.

This is the exact failure David called out: work existing somewhere other than
this file. A known bug recorded only in a release note is a forgotten bug. When
deferring anything, it goes HERE the same turn — a changelog entry is a record
of what shipped, not a queue.

The diagnostic is now gated behind Deep Dive rather than deleted: it is the only
thing that will distinguish "the data never changed" from "the data changed and
the re-render did not" when someone finally reproduces it.

v303 — DOCUMENTATION PASS (v3.63.532). Open list unchanged: the one PDF item,
which needs David.

Three fixes, all found by checking docs against code rather than reading them.

1. SECURITY.md claimed lib/docx.min.js version "cannot be established" and was
   "marked unknown". False since v3.63.527. A security policy understating its
   own coverage is worse than one that is silent, because it reads as a gap
   that needs work. Corrected, including why that file's hash will never match
   upstream (local IIFE wrapper) so the difference is not read as tampering.

2. SECURITY.md now DISCLOSES pdfjs-dist-classic 3.11.174 sitting below the fix
   for CVE-2024-4367, why it cannot move, and that the gate enforces the
   isEvalSupported:false mitigation. Disclosing a known-and-handled issue is
   cheaper than a researcher rediscovering it, and it points them at the report
   that would actually matter: a way past the mitigation.

3. tools/README.md is new. Seventeen scripts, several documented NOWHERE. It
   says for each: what it protects, when to run it, whether release-check runs
   it, what it needs. Same failure mode as the dead-code audit — a check nobody
   can find does not get run.

STANDING PRACTICE: adding a script to tools/ without adding its row to
tools/README.md is the thing that is now out of place. And never write a
literal cache-bust stamp into prose anywhere in tools/ — gate stage 2 has no
comment awareness and fails the build on an example.

v302 — SECURITY SURFACES CLOSED OUT (v3.63.531). Open list unchanged: the one
PDF item, which needs David.

The three areas v3.63.530 explicitly did NOT claim are now covered.

1. STORAGE IMPORT SANITISER. consoleHTML is the only field in a checkpoint
   that is deliberately re-rendered as markup (storage.js:794). Tested live
   against img-onerror, javascript: href, inline on* attribute, svg onload and
   iframe: none survived, window.__wfPwned never set. Critically the check also
   asserts a LEGITIMATE console entry survives — a sanitiser that nukes all
   input passes every safety assertion while breaking the feature, and the
   first version of this test failed exactly that way (it was reading
   body.innerText, which skips the hidden work-screen console).

2. DEPENDENCY ADVISORIES. Checked every vendored lib against the GitHub
   advisory database. Clear: docx 9.7.1, jszip 3.10.1, mammoth 1.13.1, sheetjs
   0.20.3, pdfjs-dist-esm 6.3.289. NOT clear and cannot be: pdfjs-dist-classic
   3.11.174 is below the fix for GHSA-wgrm-67xf-hhpq (CVE-2024-4367) and is
   pinned there permanently — see v299's note. Mitigated by isEvalSupported:
   false, which the gate now asserts at every getDocument() call site and which
   was mutation-tested.
   NOTE WORTH KEEPING: GHSA-hq66-cqwq-w95j (HIGH) covers pdfjs >= 5.6.83 and
   < 6.2.108. v3.63.528 landed on 6.3.289 and is past it, but 6.0.227, 6.1.200
   and 6.2.x-before-.108 are all INSIDE it. A floor now enforces that.

3. CLOUDFLARE RELAY. Reviewed: origin allowlist, path allowlist, method
   allowlist, key required and never stored, rate limit on a hashed key, size
   guard checking BOTH declared Content-Length and actual byteLength, no
   Access-Control-Allow-Credentials. No findings. One undocumented property
   written up: absent-Origin requests are allowed (needed for file://), so the
   relay is reachable by non-browser clients bringing their own key.

STILL NOT CLAIMED: this is not a general security audit. No penetration test,
no review of the AI providers themselves, no threat model for a hostile
provider beyond output escaping.

v301 — HTML-SINK AUDIT DONE (v3.63.530). One open item, and it needs David.

The claim "all the code has been examined against security stuff" was NOT true
before this release and is now true for one specific class: HTML injection into
the UI. It is not a general security audit and nobody should describe it as one.

Result: 126 HTML sinks in js/, 103 static or fully escaped. Reviewer suggestion
text, AI display names and server-supplied model names are all escaped at their
render sites. A runtime check seeded hostile markup into AI names, project name
and reference titles, walked every screen that renders them, and found zero
elements created — the text arrived escaped.

Method note worth keeping, because two attempts failed first: static analysis of
this codebase does not work for this question. A hand-rolled scanner cannot find
where a template literal ends, and both attempts reported consoleLog() and
toast() strings as sinks. The third approach — seed hostile data, boot the real
app, ask the DOM what became an element — is the one that answers it.

The committed check asserts LIVENESS before safety: it fails if the hostile
value never loaded or never reached the DOM. Its first version passed while
proving nothing, which is the failure mode to watch for in every check here.

Mitigation context: script-src has no 'unsafe-inline', so injected handlers do
not run. Escaping is the first line, CSP the second.

NOT covered and not claimed: dependency vulnerability review beyond Dependabot,
the Cloudflare relay beyond its own test, and the storage import sanitiser.

v300 — OPEN WEBUI VERIFIED, BACKLOG EMPTY (v3.63.529). Old #1 struck. There
are no open items.

The Open WebUI .ollama wrapping is confirmed against a live server, which is
what the entry actually asked for. limitsFromModelEntry('openai-models', entry)
run over the real /api/models response: 10 of 10 entries with a context figure
matched ollama.details.context_length exactly, 8192 through 262144. The 11th
(Open WebUI's virtual "Arena Model") carries no Ollama object and correctly
yields nothing.

Getting there needed two admin toggles that are OFF by default in Open WebUI
0.11 and are worth writing down, because the next person will hit the same
wall: auth.enable_api_keys and user.permissions.features.api_keys. With them
off, Account shows no API keys section at all and every model endpoint returns
401 while /api/config and /health stay open — which reads like a broken
container and is not one.

Found while verifying, and fixed in the same release: the Import from Model
Server error card printed the literal "{ai}" because it renders catalog text
without going through renderTroubleshootingCard, which was the only code that
substituted placeholders. Now one shared WF_DEBUG.substitute, and a test walks
the whole catalog asserting no placeholder survives.
STANDING PRACTICE: catalog
text is a template; any surface that displays it substitutes first.

v299 — PDF.JS UPGRADED (v3.63.528). Old #2 struck; one item remains.

Closed, but not the way the entry assumed. The ESM build went 4.10.38 ->
6.3.289 and verified clean. The file:// fallback CANNOT follow and this is
permanent: pdfjs-dist has published ESM only since 4.x, so no 4.x, 5.x or 6.x
release exists in a form a file:// page can load. 3.11.174 is the last major
with a classic build. Recorded in docs/vendored-dependencies.json so nobody
re-opens it as "the fallback is 200 releases behind" — it is pinned by a
browser rule, not by neglect. Getting off it would mean adding a build step,
which §3 forbids.

Found on the way, and the more useful finding: five URLs in the pdf.js load
path had no working cache-bust — two frozen ~90 releases, three with none.
Replacing lib/pdf.min.mjs did not change what a returning browser ran. Proved
live: the page kept reporting 4.10.38 after the file was replaced.

STANDING PRACTICE, because this will recur: a release sweep rewrites the stamp
it is replacing and nothing else, so a stamp that misses ONE release is skipped
by every release after it and freezes silently. The gate now checks ?v= stamps
in js/ as well as HTML, which is where the frozen pair lived.

tools/check-file-protocol.mjs is new: opens the real index.html from disk in
headless Chrome and asserts the portable path. Run it when touching the pdf.js
loader or the vendored builds. Not a gate stage — release-check is pure Node
stdlib by design and would start needing a browser.

v298 — DOCX VERSION IDENTIFIED (v3.63.527). Old #3 struck; items renumbered
1..2.

Closed properly rather than closed empty: the version is 9.7.1, established by
downloading every docx release in the window and hashing its published browser
bundle. The whole difference from ours is the wrapper — three lines at the top,
one at the bottom, and 33,170 identical body lines.

Two things to keep. The bundle contains "0.132.0", which is @oxc-project/runtime
and not docx; a version string inside a bundle usually belongs to whatever built
it. And lib/docx.min.js is locally modified — the UMD wrapper was swapped for an
IIFE — so its recorded hash will never match an upstream artifact. That is now
written in the inventory, because otherwise it reads as corruption. On upgrade,
take the published dist/index.umd.cjs and re-apply the same swap.

v297 — HISTORY REWRITTEN AGAIN (v3.63.526). Open list unchanged at 1..3.

The v3.63.525 sweep cleaned the working tree; this cleaned history. Recorded
because two things learned here will matter the next time.

First: --replace-text does not touch commit messages. It needs --replace-message
as well, with the same rules file. A pass that used only the first reported
success while a document name sat in a commit body.

Second, and worse: a verification script reported a string absent when it was
plainly in the file. It read every blob including binaries, so a batch holding a
large image overflowed the child-process buffer, the spawn failed, and the loop
did "continue" — dropping four hundred objects and calling the rest clean. A
verification that can silently pass is worse than none, because it is the only
thing standing between a force-push and a leak. Any future scanner treats a
failed batch as a hard error and asserts it read as many objects as it listed.

Also worth keeping: a replacement rule is a substring match. A rule written to
rewrite "at David's work" also rewrote the middle of "that David's workflow" in
398 blobs. Always diff the rewritten tip against the live tip before pushing —
that diff is what exposed it.

v296 — CONFIDENTIALITY SWEEP (v3.63.525). No item opened or closed; the open
list is unchanged at 1..3.

Recorded here because it changes what a future pass should look for. Searching
for the employer's name and the gateway's name — which is what the 2026-09-15
pass did, and it found them — cannot find a sentence that names neither and
still describes the author's own workplace. Six of those survived that pass and
stayed published for months: one in a source comment, three in release notes,
one on a live documentation page, one in this folder.

The live one was the worst of them and had nothing to do with code. A playbook
uses real reference material as its worked example, and one line of it listed
the identity software in use at a real workplace. It was on waxframe.com.

Standing practice, which is the part worth keeping: search for the SHAPE of a
sentence about a workplace, not for the names of things in it. The gate now
carries a rule for that, matching author-attributed phrasing only, so that
second-person copy addressed to the reader about the reader's own workplace
keeps working. Rules Reference's ENVIRONMENT section was rewritten in the same
pass and no longer describes a specific employment situation.

v295 — AUDIT ITEM CLOSED (v3.63.524). Old #3 struck; items renumbered 1..3.
The orphan/eval audit was re-run and everything it found was fixed in the same
release rather than recorded here, so the entry closes empty.

It is now a committed tool — tools/audit-dead-code.mjs — and not a procedure
somebody re-derives from a methodology doc. That is the actual finding. The
previous audit ran 2026-07-25, the next ran 2026-09-20, and in between five
genuinely dead things accumulated in code that nobody could check in one
command. The doc describes what to look for; the tool is what gets run.

The audit gained a pass it did not have before: dangling DOM lookups. Plain
reference counting cannot see a function that is called constantly and does
nothing, which is how two Builder renderers, a pair of round-timer writes and
a diff-mode button lookup all stayed in the file after the elements they wrote
to were deleted from index.html. Every one of them had live callers.

Two more only surfaced once the tool learned to ignore comments: a tier
classifier with no caller, and the singular getVisionCapableAI() that
v3.63.426 replaced — each was "referenced" solely by comments naming it.

v294 — FLOW HARNESS SHIPPED (v3.63.522). Old #3 struck; items
renumbered 1..4. tools/flow-check.mjs runs headless against a same-origin mock
provider: 23 assertions over the setup screens, two complete hive rounds, the
Change Builder pill and a checkpoint round trip, for zero API spend. Wired into
the CI job that already has Chrome — NOT into release-check.mjs, which is pure
Node stdlib by design and would start requiring a browser.

It earned its keep twice before it was even committed:

  • A mutation test re-introduced the v3.63.405 bug (setBuilder no longer
    refreshing the bee grid) and the harness caught it — pill stayed on the old
    card while state said otherwise. A test that has never failed proves
    nothing, so this was run deliberately rather than assumed.
  • Building it surfaced dead code: updateBuilderRequirements() wrote to
    the req-builder and builderContinueBtn elements, neither of which has
    existed since the standalone Builder screen was retired in v3.63.147.
    Removed. The first
    removal attempt broke navigation and the harness caught THAT too, within a
    minute of being written.


v293 — ONE SYSTEM OF RECORD (2026-09-20). David, on finding that an
empty backlog did not mean an empty queue: "I don't understand how we can have
more stuff hidden in different spaces, that seems ridiculous. We need to do a
better job of cleaning that up and being more fluid and transparent so that I
can understand exactly what the hell is going on."

He was right. CLAUDE.md §8 had been carrying real code items while this file
carried the rest, so "the backlog is empty" was true and misleading at the same
time. Those items are now entries HERE, written to the same five-field shape as
everything else, and §8 is a pointer with nothing of its own.

RULE, going forward: if it is work, it goes in this file. CLAUDE.md holds
process, standing orders and verified state — never a task list. A second place
to look is how items get lost.


v292 — QUEUE EMPTY (2026-09-20). The last numbered item — the refs the
v3.63.515 rewrite could not reach — was closed as ACCEPTED RESIDUE on
David's decision rather than escalated. The reasoning lives in the private
process notes and is deliberately not restated here: this file is public,
and the entry as previously written was a map of where to look.

There are now NO numbered items. **That is the finished state, not a gap.**
Do not invent entries to keep the count above zero. The habit this document
kept failing at was the opposite one — carrying items that were already done
— so an empty queue is the point of all that housekeeping, not a problem
with it.

Also fixed here: v287..v291 had left the v290..v283 notes stranded below the
OPEN FEATURES section instead of with the other notes. Section order is back
to ABOUT / history / OPEN BUGS / OPEN FEATURES / STANDING PRACTICE /
OUTREACH / NOTES ON FORMAT.


v291 — HISTORY REWRITE DONE (2026-09-20, v3.63.515). Old #1 is struck:
the rewrite was rebuilt against current main and force-pushed. What that
covered, verified by scanning the rewritten mirror end to end:

  BEFORE: 21 commit messages · 2 paths · 5,719 text blobs · 12 of 23
          archives carrying a term inside.
  AFTER:  0 · 0 · 0 · 0. No ZIP-shaped blob remains in history at all.

  Every archive artifact ever committed was removed rather than rewritten,
  because a term inside a compressed stream cannot be substituted in place:
  10 release ZIPs, 6 .docx, a favicon bundle, a Word lock file, and a whole
  committed unpacked release directory (123 files). Two branded PNGs went
  with them. The repository went from 982 MB to 141 MB.

  main lost exactly ONE commit, "Add the partnered Word Doc", which added
  nothing but a .docx. Its tree is byte-identical to what was live before
  the rewrite — checked by tree hash, not by eye. All 927 tags and all 16
  branches were rewritten and force-pushed; all 921 GitHub releases and
  their assets survived; the live site serves the same version it did.

  GitHub's auto-generated source archives — the part that could never be
  fixed without a rewrite — are regenerated and clean. Proven rather than
  assumed: the v3.63.393 archive now contains 18 occurrences of the
  REDACTED token that only exists because of this rewrite, and its file
  count matches the rewritten tag's tree exactly.


v290 — CAP WARNING AND RETRY COVERAGE SHIPPED (v3.63.514). Old #1 struck;
one item remains, and it is the one that is David's decision rather than a
task. Both halves done:

  (a) A length target past the Builder's known output ceiling warns at
      Launch with both numbers and the limit's provenance, stays silent when
      the cap is unknown, and never blocks.
  (b) The reject-and-learn retry was driven end to end for the first time,
      against a mock endpoint returning OpenAI's exact 400 wording. It found
      a real bug: the learned ceiling was recorded against cfg.model, the
      provider's DEFAULT model, instead of the model the request used. Every
      variant row and every row with a picked model differs from cfg.model,
      so the capped model never learned its ceiling and the rejection
      repeated every round while the picker showed an API-sourced number for
      a model that had never reported one.

Also shipped: the streaming setting finally has a UI control (Settings →
Workflow & Updates → "Stream responses"). It had existed since v3.63.499
reachable only from the console.

THE QUEUE IS NOW ONE ITEM, and that item needs David, not an assistant.
When it is resolved this file holds no numbered work at all — which is the
point, not a gap to fill. Do not invent entries to keep it populated.

v289 — ANTHROPIC + GEMINI STREAMING SHIPPED (v3.63.513). Old #1 struck;
items renumbered 1..2. The blocker named in that entry was real: the relay
Worker read the whole upstream response with .text() before replying, so
SSE could not have passed through it at all. Worker now streams the body
through and its test drives the real fetch handler against a stubbed
upstream, asserting the first frame is readable before the upstream closes.

NOT VERIFIED, and worth doing on the first real round: no request has gone
to the live Anthropic or Gemini APIs on the streaming path — this session
had no key for either. The mock reproduces both providers' documented SSE
shapes with frames split mid-payload, and everything downstream was driven
off it in a real browser, but a mock cannot stand in for a provider's real
byte timing. The tell is whether the "is writing... N chars so far" status
starts ticking; if it does not, streaming is not reaching the browser.

v288 — LOCAL-SERVER LIMITS SHIPPED (v3.63.512). Old #1 struck; items
renumbered 1..3. The declared half of the declared-vs-observed comparison
is populated for self-hosted AIs now, from responses WaxFrame was already
fetching. Verified against a live Ollama 0.34.2 rather than fixtures alone,
which is what caught the part that mattered: /api/tags publishes the
model's ARCHITECTURAL context length, and four of the ten models on that
machine carry a Modelfile num_ctx of 16384 sitting well under it. Shipping
/api/tags alone would have reported 256K at a server configured for 16K —
overstating the ceiling by 16x, which is the exact failure the entry's DONE
criterion was written to prevent. /api/show carries the override and is now
read on the deliberate refresh paths (one small POST per model, no model
load, ~420ms for ten models); it is deliberately NOT on the 60-second
connectivity probe.

LM Studio's /api/v0/models shape remains UNVERIFIED against a live
instance — the max_context_length / loaded_context_length pair is covered
by fixtures and by the pre-existing extractor code, not by a real run. Open
WebUI's nested .ollama shape is likewise fixture-only. Neither is a blocker;
both are worth a live pass next time those servers are up.

v287 — BACKLOG KNOCK-DOWN (2026-09-20, v3.63.511). Seven of the
eleven items shipped in one release. STRUCK, all verified in the
tree before removal:

  old #4  scrubFailureRecord Node fixture — tools/test-debug-
          redaction.mjs, 19 checks, wired as release-check stage 14.
          The first run of it found a real bug: js/wf-debug.js held a
          literal 0x08 BACKSPACE byte where the regex \b was meant, so
          the Bearer/Basic redaction rule had never matched anything
          since v3.63.493. Fixed, and the gate now rejects raw control
          characters anywhere in source.
  old #5  unreferenced .flac — deleted. Decision recorded: it is the
          freesound.org master, unused at runtime, re-downloadable from
          freesound.org id 232450, and it shipped 271 KB in every
          release ZIP. Note the v3.63.91 changelog had already CLAIMED
          this deletion; the file was still tracked, so a changelog
          line is not evidence a file is gone.
  old #6  @keyframes lineNumPulse — removed. Zero references anywhere
          in the tree, including JS template literals.
  old #7  :not(.setup-section-img) — exclusion removed, comment
          rewritten. Specificity drop from (0,2,0) to (0,1,0) verified
          harmless: nothing else sets position or z-index on a direct
          child of .fs-body-single, and all six setup screens were
          confirmed in-browser still computing position:relative /
          z-index:1 on their panels.
  old #8  reference docs self-dating to v3.63.403 — all four reviewed
          against the live tree, not just re-dated. Real drift found
          and corrected in three of them; the Prompts Reference's
          builder_refine text was ~55 lines behind the shipped prompt
          and was replaced from js/prompts.js.
  old #9  stale .claude/worktrees entries — nothing left to prune;
          git worktree prune reported nothing and the directory is
          empty. The old Dropbox path is gone from disk entirely.
  old #10 test-server-ai-eligibility.mjs — wired as release-check
          stage 15.

Items renumbered 1..4 with no gaps. The gate went from 17 stages to
19, and its stamp sweep now covers js/**/*.mjs and tools/**/*.mjs
instead of a hand-kept list in CLAUDE.md — the list had already let
tools/indexnow-ping.mjs rot ~90 releases behind.

v281 — HOUSEKEEPING PASS (2026-09-14). The item count had drifted
away from the amount of real work. Every claim below was verified
against the live repo before acting:

  STRUCK (already done, never removed):
    old #7  questionnaire — its own STATE said SHIPPED 2026-08-09
    old #10a model-limit half — shipped v3.63.494. Verified:
            provider-catalog.js:148 DEFAULT_OUTPUT_BUDGET = 32768,
            :309 body.max_tokens = resolveOutputBudget(model),
            ANTHROPIC_MAX_OUTPUT_TOKENS absent from js/ and tools/.
  MOVED OUT OF THE QUEUE (decisions and standing practice, not
  tasks — see the two sections after OPEN FEATURES):
    old #1 (ongoing housekeeping), #4 (DEFERRED by David
    2026-08-02), #6 (PARKED 2026-08-01), #9 (tooling gap; js/
    verified clean today).
  MERGED:
    old #10b + #12 — one job: local servers publish no output cap
    old #11 + #16  — both hang off knowing the cap: warn before,
                     recover after
  SPLIT:
    old #8 was six separate chores under one number. Now six
    numbered items, so the count reflects the work.
  RENUMBERED 1..11 with no gaps. The old numbering had no #5
  (descoped 2026-08-02) and had accumulated struck entries.

Net: 16 numbered items → 11, and the 11 are all real.

v282 — OVERNIGHT VERIFICATION SWEEP (2026-09-15). Old #3 (the
open-webui-setup.html CORS trap) SHIPPED in v3.63.497 and is struck;
items renumbered 1..10. Everything else on the list was re-verified
against the running app in real Firefox from file:// — 29 checks, 0
failures. Detail in the v3.63.498 changelog entry.

v283 — STREAMING SHIPPED (v3.63.499). Old #1 struck; items renumbered
1..9. Streaming covers the OpenAI shape only — every local server, every
gateway deployment and 8 of 10 built-in providers, including the path
that actually times out. Anthropic (CF Worker proxy) and Gemini (needs
:streamGenerateContent) still need doing; that is now item 9.


════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
OPEN BUGS
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════

None currently open.

════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
OPEN FEATURES
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
Ordered by value.

1. Exercise PDF import against REAL-WORLD PDFs
   ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
   WHAT:   v3.63.528 moved the hosted PDF engine to 6.3.289,
           verified against one generated two-page file. The
           SYNTHETIC half of this item is now done (v3.63.540,
           tools/check-pdf-shapes.mjs): eight adversarial shapes
           — no text layer, encrypted with and without a
           password, 600 dense pages, truncated, broken xref,
           empty pages — run against BOTH vendored builds,
           6.3.289 on http and 3.11.174 on file://.
           What remains is the half a generator cannot fake:
           PDFs produced by real tools, which bend the spec in
           ways synthetic files do not.
   WHY:    The synthetic pass already earned its keep. It found
           an import cap of 2,000,000 characters refusing a
           LEGITIMATE 600-page document (~2.7 M characters), and
           a password-protected PDF surfacing pdf.js's own "No
           password given" instead of saying what was wrong.
           Both fixed in v3.63.540. But a scanner's output, a
           government form, a LaTeX paper and a Word export all
           break engines in ways a hand-built file will not, and
           no amount of generated coverage substitutes.
           Useful result already banked: the two engines behave
           IDENTICALLY on all eight shapes, which is the first
           real evidence that the permanently-pinned 3.11.174
           portable build is not a liability.
   STATE:  PARTIAL, and the remainder is blocked on David — it
           needs real files, and the useful ones are his own.
           FIRST REAL-WORLD RESULT, 2026-09-21, v3.63.540 on
           waxframe.com in Firefox: a short business document
           with a real text layer, well under one page, imported
           cleanly — 721 characters, 112 words, 3 paragraphs. No
           OCR warning, so the sparse heuristic correctly left it
           alone; no import-bound error, so neither the raised
           character cap nor the zip-expansion guard catches a
           small legitimate file.
           SECOND REAL-WORLD RESULT, same day, same build: a
           two-page product drawing — almost the whole page is a
           line rendering, with a small letterhead block at the
           top of each page. It took the WHOLE-DOCUMENT VISION
           branch, which is the one a mock cannot validate:
           sourceType came back pdf-vision (proved by the Verify
           panel opening on its own, which only happens for that
           sourceType), and the transcription matched the
           original pane on inspection. The rendering itself
           correctly produced no text — there is none in it.
           The letterhead appears twice in the output because it
           appears on both pages. That is correct, not a
           duplication bug: vision transcribes per page.
           So the OCR path is now confirmed end to end against a
           real file with a real provider — the one thing
           tools/check-ocr-handoff.mjs is structurally unable to
           answer.
           THIRD RESULT — the long file, and it did NOT need to
           be David's. A public standards PDF of ~490 pages
           (PDF 1.6, xref streams, object streams, linearized —
           i.e. real modern producer structure) parses cleanly
           on BOTH engines: 12.2 s / 211 MB heap on 6.3.289,
           10.7 s on 3.11.174, document outline extracted, no
           warnings, no errors.
           🔴 AND IT FOUND SOMETHING A SYNTHETIC FILE CANNOT:
           the two engines do NOT agree. 1,580,803 characters on
           the hosted build against 1,582,600 on the portable
           one — 0.11 percent apart on the same file. Every
           synthetic fixture in check-pdf-shapes matches
           exactly, so the corpus alone would have supported the
           conclusion that the engines are equivalent. They are
           not, quite. The difference is almost certainly
           whitespace, ligature and hyphenation handling, and it
           is immaterial for document refinement — but the CLAIM
           "both engines behave identically" was only ever true
           of synthetic input and has been corrected wherever it
           was written down.
           STILL OUTSTANDING, and now the only thing left: a
           genuinely SCANNED document — photographed or flatbed,
           no text layer anywhere, skew and noise. A clean
           vector drawing is an easier input than a scan, and
           the long-file half is now covered by a public file
           that carries no confidentiality question at all.
   WHERE:  js/app.js extractPDF (including the new
           PasswordException / InvalidPDFException translation)
           and the OCR fallback for sparse pages;
           tools/check-pdf-shapes.mjs for the synthetic corpus;
           tools/check-file-protocol.mjs for the portable path.
   DONE:   Several real PDFs imported through the app — at
           minimum one scanned/image-only and one large multi-
           hundred-page file — on waxframe.com AND on a portable
           file:// copy, because those are different engines.
           Report per file: shape (scanner / Word export / LaTeX
           / form / deck), rough page count, rough size, whether
           it had a text layer, where it was run, outcome, time,
           characters extracted, and any WaxFrame warning or
           error text VERBATIM.
           🔴 The file itself, its name, its content and any
           figure from inside it must NEVER reach this repo, an
           issue, or a chat — see §0 of the handover. WaxFrame's
           own error strings are ours and are safe to quote;
           anything the PDF says is not.
   NOTE:   The OCR/vision PLUMBING is now covered without a key,
           by tools/check-ocr-handoff.mjs against a same-origin
           mock vision provider — 18 assertions over both
           branches (whole-document vision for an image-only
           file, sparse-page OCR for a mostly-text one), the
           provider fallback, and the all-providers-failed
           message. No bugs found; the path is sound.
           What a mock cannot answer is whether a REAL provider
           transcribes a REAL scanned page usefully. That is a
           property of the provider rather than of this code,
           and it is the only part of the OCR story still
           needing David and a funded key.

Ordered by value. Everything here is real work with a real
acceptance test. Items needing David rather than an assistant say so.

SETTLED DECISIONS
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
Things that were considered and deliberately NOT done. They
live here so a later reader does not re-raise them as
oversights, which is what happens when a decision is only
recorded in someone's memory.

An entry here is not permanent. It says what was decided, why,
and what would justify revisiting. If a trigger fires, move it
back into OPEN FEATURES with that trigger named.

1. HSTS on waxframe.com — NOT doing it (decided 2026-09-20)
   ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
   WHAT:   No Strict-Transport-Security header is sent. Every
           hostname 301s HTTP to HTTPS correctly, but nothing
           tells a browser to use HTTPS next time, so a first-
           ever visit makes one plaintext request first.
   DECIDED: Accept the residual risk. Do not proxy DNS through
           Cloudflare to add the header.
   WHY:    The attack needs an active network attacker sitting
           in the path at a user's FIRST EVER visit. Against
           that, the cost is real and ongoing:
             • GitHub Pages already runs behind Fastly, so
               proxying adds a SECOND CDN with its own caching
               and failure modes.
             • Cloudflare proxy in front of Pages needs SSL/TLS
               mode Full (strict) or the site breaks or loops.
             • HSTS is sticky and NOT revocable from the server.
               A wrong setting with a long max-age locks
               browsers out for that whole duration.
           That is more permanent operating surface than the
           threat justifies at current scale.
   NOTE:   The reason this cannot be fixed in the repo at all:
           GitHub Pages sends no custom response headers. That
           is the same reason the clickjacking guard is a script
           rather than a frame-ancestors directive, and why the
           CSP meta correctly OMITS frame-ancestors (that
           directive is ignored unless sent as a header).
   REVISIT IF: WaxFrame gains a real user base beyond a handful
           of customers, OR hosting moves off GitHub Pages to
           anything that can set its own headers — at which
           point this is a one-line config rather than an
           architecture change. Not on a schedule; no periodic
           re-audit.
   IF REVISITED: proxy apex + www (orange cloud), SSL/TLS mode
           Full (strict), then HSTS under SSL/TLS -> Edge
           Certificates. START at max-age 300 and confirm a
           fresh browser profile loads the site before raising
           it. Preload only after a long max-age has run clean.
           Verify: curl -sI https://waxframe.com/ | grep -i strict

2. Conflicts panel lock bug — STRUCK, never reproduced
   (decided 2026-09-20)
   ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
   WHAT:   Reported around v3.63.164: clicking Unlock on a
           per-line Applied Change in the Conflicts panel did
           not always return the row to its unlocked state.
   DECIDED: Struck. David: "That conflicts lock bug is a dead
           issue, we were never able to reproduce it. Strike it
           from the record and I'll open up something else if it
           somehow magically returns."
   WHY:    Deferred in June pending a reproduction that never
           came, and nothing in the ~370 releases since has
           pointed at it. The code has been through the strict-
           CSP migration and several Conflicts-panel reworks in
           that time, so whatever the original behaviour was may
           no longer exist. Carrying an unreproducible report
           indefinitely is not tracking — it is clutter that
           makes the real queue harder to read.
   NOTE:   The [wf:lock] diagnostic line in lockAppliedChange
           is KEPT, gated behind Deep Dive since v3.63.533. It
           costs nothing when Deep Dive is off, and it is
           exactly what would be needed if this ever recurs: it
           distinguishes "the data never changed" from "the data
           changed and the re-render did not". Do not remove it
           on the grounds that the bug is closed — it is cheap
           insurance against a report with no other instrument.
   REVISIT IF: someone reproduces it. Then it is a NEW entry
           with the [wf:lock] output attached, not a revival of
           this one.

3. Password-protected PDFs — NO password prompt, by design
   (decided 2026-09-21)
   ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
   WHAT:   A password-protected PDF is refused with an
           explanation. WaxFrame does not offer a password field
           and does not pass a password to pdf.js, which
           supports one.
   DECIDED: Keep it that way. Confirmed by David 2026-09-21:
           "no prompt, keep it failing with an explanation."
   WHY:    A password box is a credential surface, and this
           project's rules treat those as something to avoid
           rather than something to add carefully. The
           alternative costs a field that must not be logged,
           must not reach a Scout bundle or a checkpoint, must
           not be autofilled, and must not be persisted — four
           new ways for the export-redaction work of v3.63.537
           to be undone by a later change.
           Removing the protection at source is also more
           reliable: it happens once in the tool that applied
           it, rather than every time the document is imported.
           The user keeps a working copy either way.
   NOTE:   This is a DELIBERATE gap, not a missing feature, and
           it will read as one to a fresh auditor — pdf.js takes
           a password parameter and WaxFrame simply does not use
           it. The message names the reason and the fix, which
           is what makes the refusal acceptable:
           js/app.js extractPDF, PasswordException branch.
           tools/check-pdf-shapes.mjs asserts both halves: that
           the wording says "password-protected", and that
           pdf.js's own "No password given" never reaches the
           user.
   REVISIT IF: someone reports that removing the password at
           source is not possible for their files — a
           read-only-protected document they did not create and
           cannot re-export. That is a real case and would
           change the balance. Not on a schedule, and not
           because the gap looks untidy.

4. Two innerHTML sinks that read as findings and are not
   (decided 2026-09-22)
   ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
   WHAT:   tools/audit-html-sinks.mjs reports 23 sinks with
           unescaped interpolations, and says in its own output
           that it cannot know which are reachable. Two of the
           23 cost real time to clear and will cost it again.
   DECIDED: Neither is changed. Recorded here so the next
           reader spends the time once.
   WHY:    • The provider label in the concurrency-caps rows of
             Settings. It reaches innerHTML, and API_CONFIGS can
             be EXTENDED from an imported hive, so the label
             looks attacker-reachable. It is not, for two
             independent reasons: the row is emitted with
             esc(label), and a row only exists for a base
             provider that is a key of the PROVIDER_CONCURRENCY_
             CAPS literal, whose label is read from the static
             catalog rather than from the import. The import
             also cannot overwrite an existing catalog entry.
           • The Source Size Check message. It interpolates
             three values the user typed into the length fields,
             which is what makes it look reachable. All three go
             through parseInt before they reach the string, and
             the unit is compared against literal enums, so only
             numbers and hardcoded words survive.
   NOTE:   The audit tool also OVER-reports: two of the
           interpolations it attributes to js/app.js:1906 are
           escaped in the emitted string, because its classifier
           picked up backtick interpolations from elsewhere in
           the same block. That is the right direction for a
           classifier to be wrong in and it is not being
           tightened — a reviewer reading three benign lines
           costs less than a classifier that drops one.
   REVISIT IF: PROVIDER_CONCURRENCY_CAPS stops being a literal
           and becomes data — loaded, imported, or derived from
           saved state. The label's safety rests on that map's
           keys being fixed, and that is one refactor away from
           not being true. The esc() call would still hold, but
           the second reason would be gone and nothing would
           say so.

NOTES ON FORMAT
════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════
Every numbered entry above uses the same five-field structure:
WHAT, WHY, STATE, WHERE, DONE. Going forward, any new
backlog entry MUST follow that structure so the document
stays pickup-ready for any reader.

State vocabulary:
  OPEN      — known and ready to work on; no blockers.
  PARTIAL   — work has started, more remains; current
              state described in the entry.
  PARKED    — design is understood but not on a near-term
              release path; revisit later.
  DEFERRED  — paused waiting on an external input
              (user repro, upstream decision, etc.).

When an item ships, it moves to CHANGELOG.md and is
DELETED from this file. No "CLOSED" section here — the
changelog is the system of record for completed work.

When an item is deliberately NOT done, it moves to SETTLED
DECISIONS with what was decided, why, and what would justify
revisiting. Deleting it instead loses the reasoning, and the
next reader finds the same gap and files it again as a bug.

Two habits this document keeps failing at, both fixed in v281:
  • Shipped items must be DELETED the day they ship. Old #7 sat
    here marked SHIPPED for over a month.
  • Decisions and standing practice do not belong in a numbered
    queue — they inflate the count and can never be closed.
    Put them in STANDING PRACTICE.
